.TH EGTKBUILD 1 "10th July 2000" "eGTK Eiffel library" "eGTK tools"
.SH NAME
egtkbuild \- Build an Eiffel project using eGTK

.SH SYNOPSIS
egtkbuild [-verbose] [-with_gnome]
.I root-class

.SH DESCRIPTION
egtkbuild uses SmallEiffel to compile a system that depends on the eGTK
class library.
.PP
The build, if successful, produces an executable called 
.IR root-class .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -verbose
Show what egtkbuild itself is doing.  (You may also want to specify
-verbose in the variable SE_OPTS.)
.TP
.B -with_gnome
Include appropriate commands for using Gnome libraries in the C
compilation commands.
Use this option if you are using classes from $EGTK/lib/gnome.

.SH CUSTOMISATION
To customise the build for your personal preferences, you may set certain
variables in 
.IR $HOME/.egtkbuild.rc .
To customise for a particular project, you can use 
.IR ./.egtkbuild.rc ;
if this exists it is used instead of
.IR $HOME/.egtkbuild.rc .
.PP
.I .egtkbuild.rc
must be Bourne shell script with execute permissions set
for the current user.  If you assign to variables strings that contain
white space, remember to enclose the whole string in quotes.
.PP
.I .egtkbuild.rc
may set the following variables, which will override the default settings:
.TP
.B COMPILE
The command to use to compile the project; the default is 
.RB ' compile '.
.TP
.B DEBUG
The flags to be given to the C compiler to control the inclusion of
debugging aids in the object code; the default is
.RB ' -g '.
.TP
.B OPTIMISE
The flags to be given to the C compiler to control optimisation; the
default is
.RB ' -O '.
.TP
.B SE_OPTS
The flags to be given to the SmallEiffel compiler; the default is 
.RB ' "-no_strip -no_style_warning" '.
.PP
.I .egtkbuild.rc
may also set the following variables, which will be prepended to the default
options (therefore do not repeat the default options):
.TP
.B CECIL
Additional cecil files to be included.  The default is
.RB ' "-cecil ${EGTK}/C/se/cecil.se")
.TP
.B INCFLAGS
Compiler options to specify additional directories to search for
include files.  The default is
.RB ' "-I. `gtk-config --cflags`" '.
.TP
.B EXTERNAL
Other *.c and *.o files to include in the compilation.  By default this
variable contains
.RB " ${EGTK}/C/eif_gtk.c
.BR ${EGTK}/C/se/eif_gtk_se.c ".
.TP
.B LIBS
Compiler options to specify additional directories to search for
libraries and libraries to include.  The default is
.RB ' "`gtk-config --libs`" '
or
.RB ' "`gnome-config --libs gnome gnomeui`" '
if
.B -with_gnome
is used.
.PP
The whole command to be run is
.IP
$COMPILE $SE_OPTS $CECIL ${root_class}.e -o ${root_class} $DEBUG $OPTIMISE $INCFLAGS $EXTERNAL $LIBS

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.egtkbuild.rc
Settings for all builds by the user.
.TP
.I ./.egtkbuild.rc
Settings for the project in the current directory.  This overrides
any settings in
.IR $HOME/.egtkbuild.rc .

.SH SEE ALSO
SmallEiffel documentation for 
.BR compile.

.SH AUTHOR
egtkbuild and this manpage were written by Oliver Elphick
<olly@lfix.co.uk>
